♪
And you stand there.
in my house...
I'm sick and tired of...
What an awful. awful thing.
And when all is said and
done. you just made it worse.
This is just the truth!
It's high time you faced...
♪ We're up here
♪ Under the sun. the
moon. and stars ♪
♪ The galaxies above
are so far apart ♪
♪ But I see you on
the block each day ♪
♪ I wanted to reach out
- Hey.
Nice one... big hands.
Karl?
And you're Cassandra.
Hi.
I'm not normally this late.
No. I am. Um. but...
It's okay. I'll get used to it.
Um...
Uh. I mean... assuming
we do this again.
You don't look like your photo.
Not in a bad way.
Oh. Off to a roaring start.
Don't let me interrupt.
I'm just here to let you know
about our specials today.
So... I'll get you started.
We have a...
oyster chowder.
It's piping hot.
And for dessert. a
passion fruit sorbet.
Something to drink?
This water is fine. thank you.
Water. Exciting.
Same here.
Perfect.
She's a friend of yours?
She was until
about a minute ago.
She owns the place. so...
We ought to be nice.
Karl. look. Before we
get any further. um...
this probably won't work.
I'm sure you're a
decent guy. but...
bottom line. I don't know
that I want this with anyone.
This?
- A relationship.
- Oh. um...
Yeah.
How about lunch?
We both want lunch. I hope.
Yes. God. yes.
This is Carlyle Burke.
I can't take your
call right now
but it's important to me.
Leave a message.
Carlyle?
Forty-something.
Newly single. older
doesn't always equal wiser.
but I like to think
I'm making progress.
Hmm.
Your profile. I liked it.
It did not say what
you do. though.
I'm the Chief of Police.
No. you're joking.
No.
Um. yeah. That's
why I kept it vague
'cause you don't
exactly come right out.
No. I. I get that.
Lonely top cop. new in
town. Seeks soulmate.
- Chief of Police.
- Mm-hmm.
And no offense. you guys
have a difficult job.
There's plenty of good
cops too. yada yada.
But of all the types I ever
imagined myself with a...
Your turn.
Um... types?
Point taken.
Wow.
Do you always do
that? The sphinx.
That's an interesting question.
Do you always do that?
The self-sabotage.
Oh. hell yeah.
- Yeah?
- Mm-hmm.
Um. well... It's charming.
Cheers.
Corporal Yen?
Yes. That's me.
Excellent. I'm Isabella.
Nice to meet you.
Come on. Through here.
And this is where it
all happens. sort of.
Sergeant Sokolowski.
this is Corporal Yen.
You'll meet all these
other guys later.
- Sergeant.
- Welcome.
Heard a lot of
really good things.
The detective who took
down a cartel in Philly.
Yeah. Well. I was
part of the team.
- Smart and humble.
- Mmhmm.
I resent her already.
Uh. is Chief Alberg...
The boss is out to lunch.
That's not a warning.
In fact. he's
totally the opposite.
He's literally having lunch.
This is Officer Kendrick.
From Philly?
Sixers fan.
Oh. all the way.
Andy.
Edwina.
And this will be your desk.
The lockers are through there.
So... How do you
like Gibsons so far?
First 10 minutes... not bad.
It's small... and
sometimes weird.
But give it a chance.
I bet you'll love it.
Tell you the truth.
I didn't know they
still had librarians.
I mean. obviously
there's still books.
and. uh. and. and I like
books. but. uh. somehow
I just don't... I don't
think of libraries.
What do you think about. Karl?
You know. my daughters read.
Okay.
Yeah. Two of them.
Well. more like
one and a half.
Uh. Steph's the eldest.
She's off to university.
She still talks to me. but...
But Holly's 16. so...
What'd you do to her?
I failed. I guess.
Uh. Holly's with her mom?
Mm-hmm.
Divided loyalties?
I can say something
glib and stupid.
Oh. that'd be good.
Yeah.
How about you?
My loyalties? Uh...
few but fierce.
You've never been married?
I got close once.
I mean close-ish.
Here we go. Fish and chips.
And a burger.
- Thank you.
- Enjoy.
I'd love to see you
again. If that'd be okay.
Go ahead and call.
Okay.
Yeah?
What?
Did someone notice anything?
A vehicle. sounds
from the house?
You got it. Corporal.
Corporal. good to see you.
Sergeant Sokolowski's inside.
Tell me everything.
Uh. vic's name
was Carlyle Burke.
Eighty-five years old.
Guy who found him
isn't much younger.
George Wilcox.
Says he just dropped
by to say hello.
Your first homicide. kid?
You get used to it.
Some first day. huh. Corporal?
Single blow. looks
like. No forced entry.
Doesn't look like
anything's missing. but...
Chief?
Tidy room.
No obvious signs
of a struggle.
Blood splatter minimal.
Somebody's library books.
Okay. Rest of the house.
Hi.
Yep.
Hi. Hi.
I think he's been saying Tom.
Hi.
It's probably his name.
He must've bought it today
or else someone
else gave it to him.
Maybe Wilcox brought it?
No. he says he's a
gardener. not a fisherman.
Mr. Wilcox.
I'm Chief Alberg.
So you're the boss. are you?
They said you wanted to
ask me some questions.
You okay?
There's gonna be one
hell of a hullabaloo
once people figure
out what's happened.
I'd like you to show
me how you found him.
Can you do that?
I'll do what I can.
Was the door open
when you got here?
No. I knocked a
couple of times.
No answer.
So I tried the doorknob.
It wasn't locked.
I decided to go in
and see how he was.
He is 85. you know.
Was 85.
Was Mr. Burke in ill health?
How the hell should I know?
Eighty-five years
old. At that age...
The whole bag of bones
is wearing out fast.
At any minute
something essential
could just let go on you.
Yeah. no. I know the
feeling myself some days.
So you. um... you came inside.
I. uh... I think I
shouted something.
I dropped my books.
I didn't... well...
I wasn't thinking
all that clearly.
And then?
Called 911.
Hmm.
Was he a...
was he a good friend
of yours. Mr. Wilcox?
We. uh... knew each other.
You came here
fairly often though?
Not... not really. no.
Well. look around.
Tell me if you see
anything unusual.
That.
That's unusual.
Anything else?
Look...
I don't know.
It's. it's just. um...
I'm sorry.
I couldn't find anything.
We'll need your
fingerprints for comparison.
Now?
Sid. let's get
Mr. Wilcox a ride.
Yep.
Expect a phone call.
We'll have some more
questions about Mr. Burke.
who his friends were.
that sort of thing.
What about my library books?
Oh. I'll have to keep
those. They're evidence.
For what?
One more question.
Do you know anyone who might
have wanted Mr. Burke dead?
No. I didn't.
Hmm.
I'd like to go home now.
if you wouldn't mind.
Of course.
This way. Mr. Wilcox.
Hey. guys?
Give us the room.
What's missing?
The balance is off.
Balance.
Imagine you're
looking at a painting.
Both ends. there and there.
What do you see?
Nothing.
Yeah. that's my point.
Doesn't it look like
something should be there?
Sure. Yeah. possibly.
If you're like one
of those people
who kinda wants
everything in order.
Well. look at the room.
If they were valuable.
we got a motive.
Maybe.
Let's find out about the fish.
Oh. yeah... I'm
already on that.
Find out who was
clearing deadfall.
The fresh sawdust out back.
You didn't notice?
Eyes wide. Sid.
There'll be no stopping you.
Good.
Other hand. please.
Thank you.
Oh... Only a few words.
I'm sorry. that was
presumptuous of me.
As far as I know.
both your parents
were born and
raised in Portland.
Philadelphia. actually.
But my ye-ye's from Shanghai.
Uh. Myra. That's...
that's my wife.
We both love to travel.
Hong Kong twice.
Uh. but never Shanghai.
Maybe that's your next trip.
You're old before you know.
At some point the walls
start closing in on you.
Then it's done.
Finita la commedia.
Steph.
I know. I know. Text
don't call. but...
I'm old.
You speak to Holly?
Well. texted.
You know. like normal people.
I don't think she
hates you or anything.
It's the break. She
has a boyfriend.
I think she changed her mind
and was afraid
to tell you that.
Afraid?
Dad... you expect
a lot from yourself
and from other people.
Sometimes that's
hard to deal with.
I... uh. no.
That's... I... I don't expect.
Yeah. but you do.
I don't care. I'm
as bad as you are.
But Holly's different.
So... how is the
Sunshine Coast?
As great as you remember?
You know. it is
like I remember.
Some of it. anyway.
Sometimes I look
at a view and...
I saw that when I was a kid.
It's starting to
feel like home.
Does this mean
you've met someone?
No. Nothing like that.
We had lunch.
That's amazing.
But the coast itself...
something about small towns.
you get to be who you are.
Hmm. Go outside the box.
Follow your
tinfoil-hat hunches.
Yeah. Go do my job.
Thank you very much.
Investigate without six
layers of bureaucracy.
I think I may get
myself a sailboat.
Ooh.
Very nice.
So... what's her name?
The one you haven't met?
Cassandra.
So. you saw George
Wilcox walk past?
Yeah. about 2:30.
I don't know if he
saw me on the deck.
He's a good fella. George.
And your grandson.
Riley. is it?
Seems we missed him yesterday.
Well he-he. he
keeps himself busy.
helping people out.
Uh. look... he
didn't see nothing!
Riley Erlandson.
Oh. come on. come
on. He's just a kid.
Just... just...
I'm Corporal Yen.
Oh...
Finley holds out
her grandfather's old
hand-mad hunting map.
as Tyler and Kaitlyn
gather round.
The legend says
that the elder tree
is more than 400 years old.
But this tree is special...
Cassandra.
George! Hi.
Hi.
Ah! What? Oh my goodness.
It is beautiful. Thank you.
You're welcome.
You know. I really
love saying your name.
Cassandra Lee has such
a wonderful lilt to it.
There.
Met someone. have you?
Well. had lunch with.
Great.
Don't get me wrong.
independence is a fine thing.
Only highly overrated.
You looking for
something in particular?
A good mystery. maybe.
A mystery? You?
Well. yeah. It's
a great choice.
Um... the Wednesday night
book club's discussing
the modern crime novel
and Dostoevsky comes up
again and again.
Spoiler alert.
Raskolnikov confesses.
Hmm.
I was the one who
found the body.
Carlyle Burke.
Oh my God.
That's the reason I'm
here without my books.
The cops kept them.
Never mind the library
books. How are you doing?
Well... I was
right next to him.
It.
The corpse.
As close as I am to you now.
George. that's awful.
You know. you're
more than welcome
to come over for a visit.
Sometime. Anytime.
It's been a while.
- Yeah.
- We could have. uh...
rosehip tea from
my greenhouse.
Okay.
Good.
You weren't keen
to talk to us.
You can understand
how that might look.
Like I got nothing
to say to you.
It might.
On the other hand...
The fish guy...
Talk to him instead of
hassling innocent people.
Fish guy.
The cops were asking
who sells fish.
There's a guy. crappy
old van with rainbows.
Going door to door.
That's good to know.
He's a weird-looking dude.
A black guy.
Sorry. A person of color.
Can I leave now?
She's a good hire. boss.
Yeah. she's smart.
Asian.
You're a good man. Sid.
Keep evolving.
That's what my daughter
keeps telling me.
The brilliant one?
Yeah. Steph.
Mine keep telling
me to lose weight.
All five of 'em.
Maybe the... maybe the
other old guy saw him.
George Wilcox. you mean?
Yeah. he went by around 12:30.
Your grandpa said 2:30.
No. my grandpa was asleep.
He's hiding something.
He has a record.
breaking and entering.
Where are we with
the fish guy?
Oh. I'm looking
harder as of now.
It's a robbery gone wrong.
Okay. well. so
what was stolen?
Guy gets spooked.
Doesn't have time
to grab everything.
Ask around the senior center.
see where that leads you.
I wanna know if the victim
had friends. visitors.
Maybe someone knows if he
had valuables in there.
He probably had cleaners.
Good one.
Assuming it was a robbery.
it'd be worth keeping
an eye on the place.
There's a high-end
security monitoring system.
Burke just didn't
have it activated.
Well. let's activate it.
I wanna know if anyone else
saw George Wilcox at 12:30.
Contact info. Carlyle
Burke's sister.
Thanks Isabella.
I'm. uh. really sorry
about your loss.
My brother was 85 years old.
We don't live forever.
Well. the circumstances though.
that must be disturbing to you.
Homicide. so I understand?
Mm-hmm.
Um... when will you be
coming out. Ms. Ridings?
To Gibsons.
Oh. I don't think
I'll be coming out.
You're a long
way from Chicago.
Well. the funeral. settling
your brother's affairs.
You're his next of kin.
Oh.
I take it the two of
you were estranged.
Estrangement implies
a previous affection.
He didn't like me.
I didn't like him.
Who was close to your brother?
Who else have you talked to?
A man named George Wilcox.
I remember George Wilcox.
Yeah. A great. tall fella.
He was Carlyle's best man.
At your brother's
wedding. you mean?
Oh God. what a wedding.
And that long best man
with his even longer face.
Seething.
Afternoon. Mr. Wilcox.
Don't you ever wear a uniform?
No uniforms. no police car.
How am I supposed to
take you seriously?
This help?
Nuh-uh. Got a gun?
Why. do you think
I'll need one?
Your wife?
Myra. She died last March.
You still miss her.
Now that right there
is what's wrong
with all you cops.
In a nutshell.
You still miss her.
Jesus wept.
Audrey. your sister.
So... any suspects?
Not really.
An unknown person went
into Mr. Burke's house
armed with a blunt instrument.
Why the hell would
Carlyle have let him in?
That's an interesting question.
Maybe the killer used something
that he found inside the house.
It's probably out in the
middle of the ocean by now.
You can be a very
irritating man. Mr. Wilcox.
Anybody ever tell you that?
I don't suppose you dropped
in on Carlyle twice yesterday.
And why would I do that?
You're here for a
reason. I presume?
Your. uh. fingerprints.
Were all over the living room.
I was somewhat. um...
how shall I say...
discombobulated.
Right.
Let's not waste any more time
with this cantankerous
old man act.
I know Carlyle Burke was
your brother-in-Law. so...
Start talking.
We met years ago.
We both taught at
uni on the mainland.
I taught Russian history.
Carlyle taught music.
Yeah.
I never trusted him.
Every year. Myra and I. we'd
have this Christmas party.
And that's where
he met her. Audrey.
Did you tell Audrey
you didn't trust him?
Myra and I had to
leave for Germany
right after the wedding.
I had a job there teaching.
Two year exchange.
And that was...
'76. '77.
That's when Audrey was killed.
Car accident.
After the funeral.
I didn't see him again
for 35. 40 years.
Not until he showed up here.
You say you never
trusted him...
but you never really
got to know him.
So...
maybe you were all
wrong about Carlyle.
You may be right about that.
Yeah.
That could be true.
Something Burke's sister
said at the wedding.
Long sad faces.
Seething.
That was. what...
50 years ago.
Whoever smashed
Carlyle Burke's skull.
that was a crime of passion.
I've been back for
five years now.
My mom likes my brother
better. to be honest.
Um. but he has a partner
and three kids. so...
Is that why you
came back here...
to look after her?
No. God. no.
But... to be closer.
And I love the coast.
I grew up here.
And?
What is this. an
interrogation?
Oh. I thought we
were divulging.
Well. divulge.
- Big city police work.
- Mmhmm.
It was taking its toll
on my marriage. 20 years.
I'm not sure I
ever saw it coming.
I looked up and then it
had all fallen apart.
It was my fault. I
stopped noticing.
I've always been good at that.
How was that?
So what were you looking for
when you signed on
to a dating site?
You.
Um... it's my daughter's idea.
Ah.
The one who still talks to me.
So. basically I'm
a shot in the dark.
How about you?
I wasn't meeting
anyone. And. um...
Men... seem to find
me disconcerting.
Please disconcert me.
Well. I signed on with the
hope of finding a pleasant.
not unattractive.
courteous male person
with whom I can have
adequate conversation
and spectacular sex.
How's the conversation?
So far it's not bad.
I have a friend who
lives up the road.
Audrey?
No. it's me.
George. are you all right?
Yeah. sure. Fine.
The sun was in my eyes.
Hope you don't mind.
Is he the one?
Is now a bad time?
No. no. no. It's all good.
All good.
I should've called before
showing up. I'm sorry.
Since when did you become
friends with the police force?
Not the entire
force. just Karl.
I see you've been digging
out there. Mr. Wilcox.
Even at this time of
year. It's impressive.
I'm thinking about
planting a garden myself.
Are you now?
You should see George's
garden in June.
It is spectacular.
The hydrangeas are
blue and then purple.
My mother used to
grow geraniums.
Sunflowers and hollyhocks.
There's an amazing
sense of grace
to be found with gardening.
That is. as long as you can
handle the responsibility.
It's hard to tell if
your interest is genuine.
Mr. Alberg.
Hard to know if you're
that sort of man.
Never mind those.
It's my pleasure.
You changed something.
Nope.
Something's different.
I ought to know. I'm
the one who lives here.
Karl.
Goodnight. Mr. Alberg.
Uh. well that was nice.
Uh. it's been a while since
I've had an evening out.
That was an evening out?
You must not get out much.
Go for a night cap somewhere?
♪ If you say it's
okay. it's okay ♪
It is late.
Okay.
♪ If you say it's
okay with you ♪
Call me.
♪ Be there to hold you tight.
♪ hold you tight
♪ Love you all
through the night ♪
♪ If it's okay with you
I drink single malt.
You've come to
the right place.
I haven't... I haven't
finished unpacking.
Yeah. how long
have you been here?
Uh... three. four months.
I'm busy with work.
Uh-huh.
That's my mom.
I mean. not her
obviously. but her work.
Shirley Alberg.
She was just starting to
get noticed when she passed.
You checked me out.
Librarians call it research.
I'm sorry about your mom.
I was 16. so...
Yeah. I'm pretty much over it.
Where is that?
That is Half Moon Bay.
What?
Mm-hmm.
My-my mom stayed
here a few times.
Ah.
I came here with her
once. um. years ago.
I was nine.
And-and you. what. you
camped on the beach
while your mom painted?
Kind of. yeah.
Oh. you are such a Bohemian.
Mm-hmm.
And now you're the
Chief of Police.
Surprises the heck out
of me too sometimes.
Hm.
What about your dad?
Did he ever come
with you guys?
Oh no. no. I mean. uh...
I never had one.
Yeah.
Just me and my mom. far
back as I can recall.
My mom really loved it here.
Something she said
about the place.
It. uh...
it has a special
kind of peace.
It heals.
Sometimes you need
that. you know?
Yeah. I do.
Yeah. Maybe that's
why I'm back.
Trying to reconnect
or something.
Karl. do you have a cat?
Possibly. Yeah.
Felix.
That's. uh. that's
what I call him anyway.
He sort of disappeared.
But. uh...
Now the food's
getting eaten. so...
You said you had single malt.
Yeah.
Guys say all kinds of stuff.
♪
♪ Don't...
♪ Take the night
♪ Don't leave here
♪ Just make it right
God...
The last time I had
a proper date...
it's been a minute.
We'll take it as
slowly as you want.
What are the other options?
♪ Do you expect me to live
♪ That kind of life?
♪ I won't
♪ I'll fight
♪ Don't take the night
♪ Take the gun and
I'll take the knife ♪
♪ Don't take the night
♪
You crafty old bastard.
Evening. George.
What are you doing
out there. George?
Rowed quite the
distance. didn't you?
Had to get out past the shelf.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
The murder weapon. George.
The one you buried
and then dug up.
You chuck them both
or just the one
you bashed his head in with?
Doesn't matter 'cause
I'm gonna find them.
Good! You look for whatever
you damn well please.
I'm going to bed.
Oh. you're a
determined man. George.
Well. so am I.
I'll have the sea
search people with me.
Underwater drones. side scan
sonar. state of the art.
There's nothing those
guys can't find.
You don't frighten me.
I just thought there might be
something you'd
like to tell me.
Well. you thought
wrong. sonny.
I don't have
anything to tell you.
You understand?
Nothing.
Karl?
♪ Seems like sorrow
Great.
♪ Never done leave
nobody alone ♪
♪ Maybe by tomorrow
♪ We could lose the
thought of owning ♪
♪
♪ Baby. by tomorrow
Good morning. boss.
You wanted to see us?
It's uh. it's the old guy.
George Wilcox?
He's dumped the murder weapon.
There's a shelf.
100 yards off shore.
All the way across
that stretch of coast.
Burke's place is
here. Wilcox is here.
If he's smart. the old
bastard rowed out past it.
And the old bastard's smart.
Last night? I mean. why?
Something to do
with the sister.
Yeah. but we still...
Of course we'll need a motive.
But he did it. Sid.
I was pretty convinced
yesterday. now I know.
I'll get someone
to look through
the security footage
from the house.
Okay.
And I need to know
if anybody else
saw George Wilcox go
past that house at 12:30.
We need to nail down
what's actually missing.
Cleaning lady.
Yeah. Found her. Do
you want me to...
Now. Please.
And find the fish guy.
Anything else for me?
Uh...
some deodorant would be nice.
For me. Sid.
You smell as fresh as
a mountain morning.
Karl Alberg.
Look at you.
Hi.
Help you?
It's a real old
timer. this guy.
He won't eat.
Tried bird seed.
whole grain bread.
Nuh-uh. No. you need
to give him some mango.
Maybe a slice of peach.
Seriously?
Yeah.
So. I hear you folks
have been looking for me.
Derek Farley.
Yeah. I sold a
trout up the road.
I just...
I swear to God.
man. I don't know...
Just tell me what
time you got there.
What you saw.
9:30. maybe 10:00 AM.
But I rang that bell
and he opened the door.
Did you see anyone with him?
Anyone coming or going?
No one.
Did he say anything?
Thanks for the fish.
something like that.
Uh. no... wait. Um...
No. he said he'd invited
a friend to lunch.
Did he mention a name?
Just an old friend.
Invited him to lunch.
Mm-hmm.
Thanks Mr. Farley.
you've been helpful.
- Really?
- Yeah. very.
Semper Fi.
Desert Storm.
I moved here 20 years ago.
Met my wife.
Better way to live.
Mrs. Harris. we
appreciate your help.
A tragedy. what a tragedy.
Poor Mr. Burke.
Yeah.
I cleaned his house
for years. you know.
like clockwork. every
second Saturday afternoon.
What we need to do
is compile a list.
anything of value that may
have been in the house.
Because robbery
was the motive?
Let's say we're doing
our due diligence.
Well. he had a fair bit.
Silverware and china.
Some old antiques.
Of course people
love to say antique
when they really mean old.
Mrs. Harris...
Have you ever
seen one of these?
Trench art? Sure.
Artwork made from
artillery shells.
This is really good. Bit
of an artist yourself.
Think carefully now. did
Carlyle Burke have...
Two of 'em. There and there.
You sure?
Ever since I've been
cleaning his house.
But they're not really
valuable though.
you buy 'em online.
Oh. yeah. Thank
you. Mrs. Harris.
Thank you.
Oh. uh. careful.
Oh! Scene of the crime.
Yes.
It's probably out in the
middle of the ocean by now.
So...
We went for a walk.
visited a friend.
and then walked some more.
Okay. Promising start.
He dropped me off at my
car and then I. um...
I followed him
back to his place.
Shut up!
He's an artist. Who
would've thought?
Okay. never mind that.
He's actually very good.
Artistically.
And no. before you ask.
he did not ask to
paint my portrait.
I'm late for work.
Okay. Cass. Cass...
This is great.
It is.
Whether you wanna
admit it or not.
Be happy.
Thank you.
So. um... is it
just his hands?
Okay. bye Phyll.
Boss.
That old accident
report from Bellingham.
Burke's wife. Single vehicle.
Turns out. driving too fast.
just went off the road.
Second page is the
autopsy report.
They gave her the works.
Apparently George Wilcox
insisted death due to injury
sustained in the crash.
Also. there may have been some
old fractures that hadn't set.
And possibly some
new ones. but...
the rest of her was
too busted up to know.
Anything from the
sea search guys?
Big ocean.
Yeah. well... I don't care
if they find anything.
he can see them from his
window every time he looks out.
Okay. Just hear me out.
Just. uh. devil's advocate.
Let's say the old guy did
just go out for a row.
I had an uncle.
slipped a gear...
stopped wearing pants.
Yeah.
everyone confesses. Sid...
sooner or later to somebody.
George... Does something hurt?
Does your heart hurt?
No. it isn't that.
I am going to take
you to a doctor.
No!
No. no. No doctors. Nuh-uh.
Okay. Okay. No doctors.
Come on. let me take you home.
You gonna be okay?
Fine.
Thank you.
For everything.
What are they doing?
Their job.
I'm going away. Cassandra.
Soon.
Going away. Why?
To be with my daughter.
But your garden?
I. uh... I don't
deserve it anymore.
I-I just can't
stomach the thought
of dying where Carlyle died.
Being buried
where he's buried.
But Myra's buried here too.
Hmm.
He's dead now.
Why do you still
hate him so much?
I've done a terrible
thing. Cassandra.
And. uh...
I need to atone.
At first I wanted
to give myself up.
but then I thought... prison?
No.
I. I... I can't.
I can't spend the last days
of my life... behind bars.
Not for him.
George. What. uh...
what am I supposed
to do with this?
Do... whatever you need to do.
Oh hey. Cassandra...
Give me a minute.
Sure... we could keep going.
But it's more than 100.000
square yards of ocean.
Rocks all over the bottom.
some as big as a truck.
Keep going.
Until?
I tell you to stop.
Well. well. The amazing
disappearing detective.
I've heard about guys sneaking
out in the middle of the night.
but from your own house?
I was gonna suggest dinner. but
today's getting away from me.
Maybe on the weekend
or something?
Cassandra?
I'd like to see you today. It
doesn't have to be for long.
What's up?
I saw police boats
on the water.
Took a notion there might
be a weapon out there.
And was there?
There he is... sphinx.
It was quite the
experience this morning.
Waking up alone in your house
with bits of you lying around.
hanging on the walls.
I know. I'll. uh...
I'll get the unpacking finished.
You're an artist too.
Not just your mom.
I went into the room.
Those paintings.
they're. uh...
they're amazing.
And personal.
So is was waking up
in someone else's bed.
Not what I would've
expected from you. but...
you take it seriously.
you're good.
How's your friend.
George Wilcox?
My God.
Are those a policeman's eyes?
They're my eyes.
I'm a policeman.
Why...
are you a policeman?
Because I'm good at the job.
I can imagine.
And I like it.
That's not an answer though.
Why do you like it?
I like figuring things
out. Solving things.
I like serving and protecting.
I know. a walking cliché.
I thought so too until
my daughters were born.
And what about justice?
Oh. justice isn't
up to me. thank God.
Thank God?
The law lets you
know where you stand.
I don't...
think that George is doing
very well. to be honest.
He. uh. came by
the library today.
What he have to
say for himself?
We just talked.
You said you wanted
to... to meet.
Well. what's up?
I had a really nice
time last night.
Me too.
I should get back to work.
Yeah. Sid. I'm on my way.
Already did the living room.
kitchen and bathroom. Chief.
Also the tool shed. No joy.
Guy stuff.
Yes. sir.
Tools. Junk.
What's outta place?
Thing is. Chief. if we...
had a better sense of
what we were looking for.
that might help.
Well. something that
should be there but isn't.
Something that shouldn't
be here but is.
Right. Right.
Big picture first.
then details.
Mm-hmm.
That...
Puzzle box.
My ye-ye loved those.
"I can't live in fear.
Carlyle. I won't. Never again.
"May 15th. 1978.
"If you raise a
hand to me again...
George Wilcox.
You've always suspected.
You wait 40 years and
then you kill him?
- He did it. Sid.
- Okay.
But without a confession.
what are the odds
we're gonna get him?
Then I'll get a confession.
I'd like you to come
with me. Mr. Wilcox.
Oh... going downtown. are we?
I thought maybe you'd
come to say goodbye.
One of us going somewhere?
She didn't tell you?
I'm going to Montréal.
Um...
I can't let you do that.
Why not?
You've got nothing on me.
It's all circumstantial.
I'm not even a suspect.
I'm a person of interest.
And as free as a bird.
Speaking of birds. Carlyle
left you his parrot.
Sometimes it's harder than
you'd believe to kill someone.
You bash away and they
just refuse to die.
You speaking from
personal experience?
Sometimes it's just
one little smack.
He invited you for lunch.
Now why would he
have done that?
You tell me.
Maybe 'cause it was the
anniversary of Audrey's death?
Maybe Carlyle figured
time was short.
Eighty-five years old.
Like you said. George.
wearing out fast.
There were things
he wanted to say.
problem is he said them.
How am I doing so far. George?
See. I... I don't think you
came here planning to kill him.
But the man just
wouldn't shut up.
Would he. George?
He started talking
about your sister.
I'm warning you.
Audrey was broken
long before I met her.
And that is the truth and it's
time you faced up to that.
For your own sake.
Shut up!
Saying things you
couldn't stand to hear.
So you grabbed something.
Poor Audrey would've
been better off
if she'd never had a brother.
You just wanted
to make him stop.
She'd be better off
if you'd never...
And all of a sudden
there he is...
lying dead.
With his eyes open.
I know...
because I found the body.
Talk to me. George.
You don't need to carry this.
You miserable cops.
You have no idea
what I carry around.
I remember...
coming in the back door.
I could see him in
the living room.
Sitting in the chair?
Standing.
Beating her with
a razor strop.
Carlyle Burke?
My stepdad.
It started when
we were 14. 15.
He'd beat my twin sister every
time he went on a bender.
I'd hit him with anything
I could get my hands on.
He'd just pick me up and
throw me across the room.
You've probably heard
all this before.
haven't you. Mr. Alberg?
A man with your experience.
One day on the way home...
I heard Audrey's screams
all the way to the
top of the road.
I... wanted to kill him.
I ran down to where
his truck was parked
to grab the shotgun
off his rack.
I fired a shot in the air.
Get the hell out of here.
you miserable son of a bitch.
He. uh...
he was too far away
to grab the gun...
and too drunk to
think straight.
So he turned tail and...
stumbled back
towards his truck.
My mother ran after him.
yelling at him not to drive.
That she was sorry...
and begging him to
take her with him.
He fishtailed across the
yard. clipping the gate.
As he turned onto
the upper road...
I said to no one
in particular...
If there is a God in heaven...
I hope he drives the two of
them off the bloody cliff.
Sometime that evening...
two cops showed up.
They told us...
our father's truck had
been forced off the road
by a tractor trailer.
It had flipped over
the guardrail...
and plunged into the ocean.
So...
there is a God.
I failed my
sister. Mr. Alberg.
And I might just as well
have killed both my parents.
That's it.
I have nothing
more to say to you.
Is she here?
Uh. that way.
Your friend says he's leaving.
He's surprised you
didn't tell me.
I assume that we're
talking about...
You have something to tell me?
He did it.
He did it and you know that.
I'm not sure.
Do you have any idea
how serious this is?
Pretend I don't. Karl.
Pretend I'm an idiot.
If you're withholding
information...
Is that what I am
to you. a source?
Oh. Cassandra...
How many possible sources do
you screw in the course of...
A man is dead!
Do not...
Don't...
shout at me.
Karl. Listen...
If George Wilcox had told me
that he committed a crime...
I'd have looked in the legal
section and I'd have found
that a confession like that
isn't admissible evidence.
Even if he said the words.
Yeah. well. you might
wanna look again.
It is hearsay.
It wouldn't have
mattered what I said.
It might have mattered to me.
Karl. he is an old man.
He is giving up
everything he loves.
He's no danger to anyone.
Is it really so cut
and dry for you?
Is it really so damned clear?
No.
But I don't make the rules
and I don't get to break them.
Well. I wonder how you
carry it. Detective.
The weight of your
own integrity.
Hmm. Yeah.
Attention all passengers kindly
return to your vehicle...
the ferry is about to unload.
I have enough to
press charges. George.
Put it all together. there's
motive. opportunity. means.
You take care. now.
♪
♪ Everything will be okay ♪
♪ Everything will be fine
♪
♪ Everything will be okay
♪ Everything will be fine
♪ Everything will be...
Dear Mr. Alberg...
I understand you
asked my doctor
about the state of my health.
which he refused to divulge.
It would've been simpler
to have asked me.
Yes. I am dying. If
that's of any consequence.
I can't say I'm surprised
and definitely not dismayed.
I never liked this life
all that much anyway.
First of all. I'm
writing to say thank you.
It was kind of you to
let me see those letters.
It must have been a
frustrating time for you.
I know how much you cops
like to get your man
and all that crap.
Just think how much
harder it might have been
if I'd planned
the whole thing.
Still. you did get
your man in the end.
Yes. Mr. Alberg. I
killed Carlyle Burke.
There's my confession.
signed by my dying hand.
You can go ahead and
close your case now.
Finita la commedia.
P.S. I like you. Mr. Alberg.
in spite of everything.
And I know Cassandra cares
for you a great deal.
I'd be heartbroken if I
thought I'd spoiled that.
I received a letter.
Hmm. Same here.
God... after all that.
Yeah.
George only outlived Carlyle
Burke by three weeks.
How you been?
I've been fine. thanks. You?
Uh. I don't suppose
you'd want a... a kitten.
Felix came back.
He got himself pregnant?
Yeah. Go figure.
How many?
Six.
He told me what you did.
Those letters.
That was very kind.
I might have done the same
if I'd been in your position.
I might have handled
things differently.
So. what'd he say to
you in his letter?
Uh... he told me not to
screw it up with you.
Hm.
Anyway...
Karl. I'd have to see
the kittens first.
I'll check with Felix.
See when it's convenient.
Okay.
Well you know
where to find me.
♪ Good night. good night
♪ Good night.
♪ Two lifelines
♪ On my hand
♪